skolemizatio:
step in converting fopl formula into cluase form by eliminating existentail quantifiers. it is
done by:
-Replacing ∃x with a Skolem constant if it's not inside any universal quantifier.
-If ∃x is within the scope of ∀y, replace x with a Skolem function: f(y).

skolen constant:
special constant used in skolemization, a process in fopl that removes esitenctial quntifiier
(∃) by introducing new constants/functions that represnet a particular but unspecified object

steps of resolution using skolemization:
-Convert all statements into First-Order Predicate Logic (FOPL).
-Move all quantifiers to the front (Prenex Normal Form).
-Skolemize to eliminate ∃ using Skolem constants/functions.
-Drop universal quantifiers (assumed in clause form).
-Convert to Conjunctive Normal Form (CNF).
-Apply resolution rule to derive new facts or contradictions.

uninformed vs informed search:
no domain specific knowledge like		uses problem specific heuristics
closessnes/lcoation of goal			like estimated cost to goal,path cost
bfs dfs uniform cost search			greedy best first a* hill climbing
brute force traversal,heuristics not used	heuristics used, explores msot promising path first
less efficient as exploring blindly		more efficient guided by heristic values
complete					not always complete 
effective for smaller search space		for larger search space

hill climbing: FIG
informed search that finds optimal solution by continuously moving in the direction of 
increasing value guided by heristic function
no back tracking

search starts at non optimal state
cheks immediate neighbour state
if neighbour has higher heuristic value than current state, agent moves to neighbour
repeat until it reaches peak value with no nieghbour with higher value
peak is either global or local maximum

simple hill climbing:
only evaluates nieghbour state selectes one that optimizes current cost

stochastic hill climbing:
selects neighbouring nodes randomly
greedy

steepest ascent hill climbing:
examiens all neighbouring nodes of curretn state and selects one closest to goal

problems: FIG
local maximum/foothill problem:
local maxima is peak state better than all enighboyrs but not than state farther away
occure in sight of sollution so called foothiuil
backtrack to earlier node and try goind in diffrent direction

plateau problem:
all enighbors have same value so curretn sate doesnt change
take very big or sdmall steps
randomly select sates far away

ridge problem:
special form of local maximunm
multiple local maxima same as global maxima
move in different directions or use bidirectional search

intelligence:
ability to percieve, le arn, reason,adapt and make decisions to solve problems or acheive
goalss in a dynamic environment

foundations of ai:
foundations are disciplines that contribute ideas, viewpoints and techniques to ai

1. Mathematics
    Logic (Propositional & Predicate Logic)
    Probability (Bayesian inference)
    Linear algebra (for machine learning)
    Optimization (search and learning algorithms)

2. Computer Science
    Algorithms and data structures
    Programming languages
    Software engineering
    Computational complexity

3. Philosophy
    Concepts of mind,  reasoning, consciousness
    Debates on ethics, free will, and machine morality

4. Psychology and Cognitive Science
    Understanding how humans think and learn
    Modeling human cognition in machines

5. Neuroscience
    Insights into the structure and function of the brain
    Basis for artificial neural networks

6. Linguistics
    Natural Language Processing (NLP)
    Language acquisition and understanding

7. Statistics and Data Science
    Data modeling and analysis
    Essential for machine learning and pattern recognition

script:
structured knowledge representation that describes a stereotyped sequence of events in particular
context. it uses fram like structure to repsent commonly occcuring expreiences

components of script: tprers
1. entry condition: conditions that must be satisfied before execution of script can occur
2. results: conditions that will be true after exit
3. props: objects involed in script
4. roles: people involed in script and expected actions of major participants
5. track: specifies particular position of script
6. scenes: sequence of events fowlloing a genral default path

script of visiting doctor in hospital:

Script: Visiting a Doctor

  Track: Visinting ENT specialitst

  Roles:
    - Patient
    - Receptionist
    - Doctor

  Props:
    - Appointment card
    - Waiting room
    - Prescription
    - Medical report

  Entry Conditions:
    - Patient is feeling unwell

  Scenes:
    1. Patient arrives at the clinic
    2. Registers at the reception
    3. Waits in the waiting room
    4. Goes in when name is called
    5. Describes symptoms to the doctor
    6. Doctor examines the patient
    7. Doctor writes a prescription or orders tests
    8. Patient leaves the clinic

  Result:
    - Patient receives diagnosis and treatment plan

fuzzy logic:
form of many valued logic in which truth valkues of variables may be real number from 0 to 1
handles concept of partial truth
mathematical way of repsenting vagueness/imprecise information
uses membership function to define degree to which an input belongs to a particular fuzzy set

minmax algorithm in game search:
used in 2 player adversarial games to simulate all possible move and slecet the move that
maximezes player's minimum gain, assuming opponent playsa optimally

step 1:
algorith generates enitre game tree
apply utility function to get utiliy value for terminal states
A is intial state
maximiser has worst case initila value - infinity
minimiser has wort case intila value + infinty

step 2:
find utility value for minimizer
copmare inital value and terminal state value and min will go to higher node

step 3:
find utility value for maximizer
copmare inital value and terminal state value and max will go to higher node

nlp:
field of cs that allows computers to understand hum anguaeg in written, spoken or scribbled form
uses stud of langugages,statisstics based modesl,ml,dl
allows computer to anylauze and process text/voice data to grasp theri full meaning including
speakers intentions and emotions
eg chabots, gigital assistants, tts, grammar checker

nlp techniques: tksss
alorithms used to enable machine to undersatnd,interpret and genrate human language

tokenization: breaking down text into smaller units
-word tokenzaion: split texct into individual words
-sentence tokenziation: split text into sentences

keyword extraction:
analkyzes text to indetify most important keywrds/phrasese
used for search engine optimization(seo), sm monitoring, business intelligence

sentiment analyisi:
detects and interprest the emotional tone behimd text
analzye text to idefnity sentiments like +ve -ve neutral
used for custmore feedback analysis,sm monitoring, custmore reviews

sumamrization:
sumarizes longer text like artiles,reprts to make it more maangeable for time sensisstive readers

speech recognition:
converts spoken language into text (automatic speech recoginiotn asr)
uesd by virtual assistants like siri or ga to undersatnd spoken commands

steps: lssdp
lexical analysis/tokenization:
breaking input into sammler units like words
identifying boundaries between tokens and stripping punctuations
goal is to create meaningfulk words for further prcoessing

syntactic analsys/parsing:
analyzing grammatical structure of text
text is arranged in a way that helps understand how words relate to each other using parse tree
checks if inut follows syntax of given language

semantic analysus:
derive meaning of sentence
cionverts syntatctic structure into meaningful representation to ensure meaning aligns with contetx
word sense disambiguation, meaning of words is determined by surrounding context

discourse integration:
undersatndign larger chiunks of text
ensures sentences are connected logically
meaning of one senetecnes can be interpreted based on previous and subsequent sentence

pragmatic analysis:
takes into account intended meaning, deoending on context
deals with how real world knowledge infulences meaning nof text
considers factors like speakers intent, social context, relation between participants in convo
