2.
skolemizatio:
step in converting fopl formula into cluase form by eliminating existentail quantifiers. it is
done by:
-Replacing ∃x with a Skolem constant if it's not inside any universal quantifier.
Example: ∃xQ(x) becomes Q(C1)
-If ∃y is within the scope of ∀x, replace y with a Skolem function: f(x).
(Example: ∀x∃yP(x,y) becomes ∀xP(x,g(x)))

skolen constant:
special constant used in skolemization, a process in fopl that removes esitenctial quntifiier
(∃) by introducing new constants/functions that represnet a particular but unspecified object

steps of resolution using skolemization:
-Convert all statements into First-Order Predicate Logic (FOPL).
-Move all quantifiers to the front (Prenex Normal Form).
-Skolemize to eliminate ∃ using Skolem constants/functions.
-Drop universal quantifiers (assumed in clause form).
-Convert to Conjunctive Normal Form (CNF).
-Apply resolution rule to derive new facts or contradictions.

3.
uninformed vs informed search:
no domain specific knowledge like		uses problem specific heuristics
closessnes/lcoation of goal			like estimated cost to goal,path cost
bfs dfs uniform cost search			greedy best first a* hill climbing
brute force traversal,heuristics not used	heuristics used, explores msot promising path first
less efficient as exploring blindly		more efficient guided by heristic values
complete					not always complete 
effective for smaller search space		for larger search space where exhaustive search
ot where no domaina knowledge						is imopractical

hill climbing: FIG
informed search that finds optimal solution by starting with random state then
continuously moving in the direction of increasing value guided by heristic function
no back tracking

search starts at non optimal state
cheks immediate neighbour state
if neighbour has higher heuristic value than current state, agent moves to neighbour
repeat until it reaches peak value with no nieghbour with higher value
peak is either global or local maximum

simple hill climbing:
only evaluates nieghbour state selectes one that optimizes current cost

stochastic hill climbing:
selects neighbouring nodes randomly
greedy

steepest ascent hill climbing:
examiens all neighbouring nodes of curretn state and selects one closest to goal

problems: FIG
local maximum/foothill problem:
local maxima is peak state better than all enighboyrs but not than state farther away
occure in sight of sollution so called foothiuil
backtrack to earlier node and try goind in diffrent direction

plateau problem:
all enighbors have same value so curretn sate doesnt change
take very big or sdmall steps
randomly select sates far away

ridge problem:
special form of local maximunm
multiple local maxima same as global maxima
move in different directions or use bidirectional search

4.
intelligence:
ability to percieve, learn, reason,adapt and make decisions to solve problems or acheive
goalss in a dynamic environment

foundations of ai:
foundations are disciplines that contribute ideas, viewpoints and techniques to ai

1. Mathematics
    Logic (Propositional & Predicate Logic)
    Probability (Bayesian inference)
    Linear algebra (for machine learning)
    Optimization (search and learning algorithms)

2. Computer Science
    Algorithms and data structures
    Programming languages
    Software engineering
    Computational complexity

3. Philosophy
    Concepts of mind,  reasoning, consciousness
    Debates on ethics, free will, and machine morality

4. Psychology and Cognitive Science
    Understanding how humans think and learn
    Modeling human cognition in machines

5. Neuroscience
    Insights into the structure and function of the brain
    Basis for artificial neural networks

6. Linguistics
    Natural Language Processing (NLP)
    Language acquisition and understanding

7. Statistics and Data Science
    Data modeling and analysis
    Essential for machine learning and pattern recognition

5. FIG
-reinforcement learning is feedback based ML techinque wher an agent learns to behave optimally
in enivonment py performing actions and observing results of those actions(experice)
-learning occur by trial and error
-agent recoeves +ve feedback(reward) for good action and -ve feedback(penalty) for bad action
-since there is no labelled data, agent learns automtically by experince
-used in serquutial dwecision making problems wher goal is long term like goal playing,robotics

ann to simulate OR gate:
net input yin​=b+∑xi​wi​ and applies an activation function y=f(yin​) which thresholds the input.
Weights: w1​=1, w2​=1
Bias: b=−0.5
Activation Function (Threshold θ=0): y=1 if yin​>0, and y=0 otherwise



6. ucs
ucs is modifed form of bfs for searching in weghted grpah/tree
beings at root node and continues search by visitng next node with least toal path cost from root
used instead of bfs when path cost is not uniform across all edges
complete,optimal,b^d,b^d

7.
script:tprers
structured knowledge representation that describes a stereotyped sequence of events in particular
context. it uses fram like structure to repsent commonly occcuring expreiences
1. entry condition: conditions that must be satisfied before execution of script can occur
2. results: conditions that will be true after exit
3. props: objects involed in script
4. roles: people involed in script and expected actions of major participants
5. track: specifies particular position of script
6. scenes: sequence of events fowlloing a genral default path

script of visiting doctor in hospital:

Script: Visiting a Doctor

  Track: Visinting ENT specialitst

  Roles:
    - Patient
    - Receptionist
    - Doctor

  Props:
    - Appointment card
    - Waiting room
    - Prescription
    - Medical report

  Entry Conditions:
    - Patient is feeling unwell
    - Pateint has money

  Scenes:
    1. Patient arrives at the clinic
    2. Registers at the reception
    3. Waits in the waiting room
    4. Goes in when name is called
    5. Describes symptoms to the doctor
    6. Doctor examines the patient
    7. Doctor writes a prescription or orders tests
    8. Patient leaves the clinic

  Result:
    - Patient receives diagnosis and treatment plan
    - Patient spends money

9.
-robotics is multidiscplianry field concerned with desgin,contruction,opreation and use of robots
-integrating mechanical,electrical engi,AI,control systems
-robots are machiens creaed to perform task autonomously or semi to assist humans

componets:
-mechanical construciton: form/shape to accomplish task
-eletcrical components: for power and crontrol
-compter program/AI: determenies what when how robnot acts
-actuators: movement
-sensors: detect environmental changes

mv in robotics:
mv is ability of a computer to see,utilzaitng componeset like vdeo cameras,A/D converters
and digital signal processing to visually analyze activites

perception and object detection:
mv provides sensory ability(sight) for raobots to detect changes in environemnt
to pass total Turing test to perceive obejcts and manipualte them
object detection in autonomous vechicles

real time naviagtion:
insatnneouly sesns obstackles in path and pre pla ntheir journey

sensor input processing:
cptuers images and runs algo to process raw data to extract useful info to  guide robots avctions

fuzzy logic:
form of many valued logic in which truth valkues of variables may be real number from 0 to 1
handles concept of partial truth
mathematical way of repsenting vagueness/imprecise information
uses membership function to define degree to which an input belongs to a particular fuzzy set


11.
minmax algorithm in game search:
recursive search strategyused in 2 player adversarial games to simulate all possible move and 
slecet the optimal moves for current player by assuming opponent playsa optimally

players:
MAX- tries to achieves max possible utiltiy value
MIN- tries to achieves min possible utiltiy value

mechanism:
DFS to explore entire game tree down to terminal nodes with fiexd utilty values

backtracking: as algo recursively returns from terminal nodes,
	-nodes controlled by MAX pick max value from children
	-nodes controlled by MIN pick min value from children

optimal decision:
value derived at root node(initila satE) represents highest value MAX can guarantee
aginst optimal oppnoent

step 1:
algorith generates enitre game tree
apply utility function to get utiliy value for terminal states
A is intial state
maximiser has worst case initila value - infinity
minimiser has wort case intila value + infinty

step 2:
find utility value for minimizer
copmare inital value and terminal state value and min will go to higher node

step 3:
find utility value for maximizer
copmare inital value and terminal state value and max will go to higher node

nlp:
field of cs that allows computers to understand hum anguaeg in written, spoken or scribbled form
uses stud of langugages,statisstics based modesl,ml,dl
allows computer to anylauze and process text/voice data to grasp theri full meaning including
speakers intentions and emotions
eg chabots, gigital assistants, tts, grammar checker

nlp techniques: tksss
alorithms used to enable machine to undersatnd,interpret and genrate human language

tokenization: breaking down text into smaller units
-word tokenzaion: split texct into individual words
-sentence tokenziation: split text into sentences

keyword extraction:
analkyzes text to indetify most important keywrds/phrasese
used for search engine optimization(seo), sm monitoring, business intelligence

sentiment analyisi:
detects and interprest the emotional tone behimd text
analzye text to idefnity sentiments like +ve -ve neutral
used for custmore feedback analysis,sm monitoring, custmore reviews

sumamrization:
sumarizes longer text like artiles,reprts to make it more maangeable for time sensisstive readers

speech recognition:
converts spoken language into text (automatic speech recoginiotn asr)
uesd by virtual assistants like siri or ga to undersatnd spoken commands

steps: lssdp
lexical analysis/tokenization:
breaking input into sammler units like words
identifying boundaries between tokens and stripping punctuations
goal is to create meaningfulk words for further prcoessing

syntactic analsys/parsing:
analyzing grammatical structure of text
text is arranged in a way that helps understand how words relate to each other using parse tree
checks if inut follows syntax of given language

semantic analysus:
derive meaning of sentence
cionverts syntatctic structure into meaningful representation to ensure meaning aligns with contetx
word sense disambiguation, meaning of words is determined by surrounding context

discourse integration:
undersatndign larger chiunks of text
ensures sentences are connected logically
meaning of one senetecnes can be interpreted based on previous and subsequent sentence

pragmatic analysis:
takes into account intended meaning, deoending on context
deals with how real world knowledge infulences meaning nof text
considers factors like speakers intent, social context, relation between participants in convo
