problem soolving:
process by which agent makes decisions to achieve goal by finding sequence of actoins that lead
 to goal from intial state

steps:
1. goal formulation:
	goal is the desired state of worldf agent aims to reach
	1st step that rganzes stesp to formualte goals and actions to reach it
	depends on current situation and performanmc emeausre
	more well defined goal better solutyion quality
	eg: navigation, go from B to A

2. problem formulation:
	most impoprtant step that decides what action to do to reach goal
	5 components:
		initial state:first step of agent to reach goal
		actions: all possible actions available to agent
		transition model: description of what actions do
		goal test: check if given state is goal
		path cost: assigns numeric cost to path,agents choose path which reflects 
			performace masure
	eg:chess, leagal moves are actions, board positions are states

3. search method:
	explores state space using search algorithm
	determinces possible sequnce of action to reach goal from inital stae
	chooses best squence
	informed,uninformed

4. execute:
	after finding solution, agent execute in real/simuilate environemtn

state space:
	set of all possible states of problem
	represents problem in a formal manner wit hpath from intial to goal state
	directed grpah, nodes are states,links are actions
	5 tuples
	S:[S,A,ACtion(a),Result(s,a),Cost(s,a)

uninformed/blind search:
	no domain knowledge about location of goal
	brute force method as it only knows how to traverse and differentiate leaf and goal
	doesnt use heuristics

bfs:
	tree traversal algorithm that visits all nodes in same depth level before moving to next
	uses fifo queue data structure
	algorithm:
		1. start from inital node
		2. insert intial node into fifo queue
		3. repeat until goal is fond or queue is empty
			a. dequeue node at front
			b. if goal, return else enqueue all unvisited neighbours
		4. keep track of visited nodes to avoi loops

	performance measure criteria:
	optimality: no, it odnest consider path cost yes if uniform path cost
	completeness: yes, finds solution if it exists
	time complexity: b^d
	space complexity: b^d

dfs:
	recursive tree traversal algorithm that explores as far down a path as possible 
		before backtracking
	uses lifo stack data structure
	algorithm:
		1.start from initial node
		2. mark as visited
		3. go to 1st unvisited neighbour and goto step 2
		4. if no unvisited neighbour, backtrack to previous node
		5. repeat untial goal found or all ndoes visited

	performance measure criteria:
	optimality: no, may not return shortest path to goal
	completeness: no, infinite path
	time complexity: b^d
	space complexity: b*d

depth limit search (dls):
	variation of dfs where search is limited to maximum depth L
	to avoid infinte path, once it reaches limit stops expanding
	algorithm:
		1. start from inital node depth=0
		2. explore each child recursively
		3. if depth=limit, dont expand
		4. if goal found befor elimit, success
		5. else backtrack

	performance measure criteria:
	optimality: no, special case of dfs
	completeness: yes if solution is above depth limit
	time complexity: b^L
	space complexity: b*L

iterative deeping dfs (ids):
	performs dfs with increasing depth limit 
	combines space efficeiny of dfs with completeness of bfs
	algorithm:
		1. set depth limit =0
		2. perform dls with limit 1
		3. if goal not found limit+1
		4. repeat until goal is found or max depth reached
	
	performance measure criteria:
	optimality: yes if uniform path cost
	completeness: yes, if b is finite
	time complexity: b^d
	space complexity: b*d

bidirectional search:
	forward search from inital state to goal
	backward search from goal to initial
	stops when both searches meet at middle
	algorithm:
		1. start bfs from initial node
		2. start dfs from goal node
		3. if node appears in both (Searches meet)
		4. solution path is found by joining paths

	performance measure criteria:
	optimality: yes if bfs used with uniform cost
	completeness: yes if bfs in both search
	time complexity: b^d/2
	space complexity: b^d/2

informed search:
	use heuristc about problem domain to find solution
	heuristic guarantees good solution in reasonable time

greedy best first search:
	selects path that appears best at that moment
	eval function: f(n)=h(n)
		h(n):estimated cost from n to goal
	doesnt use cost so far g(n)
	algorithm:
		1. start from initial nide
		2. use heuristic h(n) to evalaute how close node is to goal
		3. choose nod ewith lowest h(n) value
		4. expand that node
		5. repeat untial goal is found

	performance measure criteria:
	optimality: no, doesnt consider g(n)
	completeness: no, stuck in loops
	time complexity: b^m
	space complexity: b^m

a* search:
	usues heurist and path cost to find shortest path between nodes
	eval function: f(n)=g(n)+h(n)
	algorithm:
		1.Put the start node in the open list.
		2. While the open list is not empty:
    			a.Choose the node with the lowest f(n).
    			b.If it’s the goal, return the path.
			c.Else, expand the node and add its neighbors.
    			d. For each neighbor:
        			i. Calculate g, h, and f
        			ii.Add it to the open list or update if a better path is found
		3.Repeat until goal is reached.

	performance measure criteria:
	optimality: yes if admissible : h(n)<=h*(n), consistent:h(n)<=c(n,m)+h(m)
	completeness: yes if b is finite, cost at each action is fixed
	time complexity: b^d
	space complexity: b^d

hill climbing:
	heuristic search algorithm to find best solution by incrementally improving current stae
	going uphill till you cant go hgiher
	staring ste in base of hill and iterate(climb) until it reaches peak
	types:
		simple: checks first better neighbour
		steepest ascent: evaluates all neighbours and moves to best one
		stochastic hill climbing: chooses random better nieghbour rather than best one
	problems:
		local max: stops at peak that isnt highest overall
		plateau: flat area where all neighbours are equal
		ridges: needs multiple moves in different directions

